-In this section, we will take a look
at the Linux shell in detail.
We will learn how to use Linux commands
and understand how to work with files
and directories.
We will also see different ways
to get help with Linux commands.
Finally,
we will learn about the different types
of shells used in Linux
while particularly focusing
on the bash shell.
The first chapter was named
"Working with the Shell, Part One."
"This has got to be better
than the anti-corruption training,"
Bob thinks.
He begins to read under his breath.
In this section,
we will take a look at the Linux shell.
This command-line interface will enable you
to effectively work on your Linux laptop.
While the graphical version
may seem more appealing to new users,
it can be quite limited
in the level of functionality.
This is where the Linux command line,
commonly known as the shell, shines.
This guide will be a good place to start
if you have never used the shell before.
As a Linux system administrator,
you would always need
to know how to work with the shell,
so what is a shell?
The Linux shell is a program
that allows text-based interaction
between the user and the operating system.
This interaction is carried out
by typing commands into the interface
and receiving the response in the same way.
The Linux shell is a powerful tool
with which you can navigate between
different locations within the system.
However, when you log into the shell,
the very first directory you are taken to
is your home directory.
In most cases, a user, such as Michael here,
has the home directory created
under the "/home" directory.
/home is a system created directory
that contains the home directories
for almost all users in the Linux system.
This will be covered in more detail later.
The name of a user's home directory
is by default identical
to that of the name of the user.
Hence, Michael's home directory
is "/home/Michael."
Remember,
the home directory is unique for the user.
Another user called Allen
will have a different home directory,
which by default should be created
under "/home/Allen."
Why do we need a home directory?
The home directory allows users
to store their personal data
in the form of files and directories.
Each user in the system
gets their own unique home directory
with complete access to it,
to be able to save, retrieve, or delete data.
Think of it as a dedicated locker
assigned to you,
in which you can store or retrieve items.
Other users can't access your files
or folders within your home directory,
only you can.
Going forward,
all examples in this quick start guide
will make use of the user called Michael.
Another thing to note is the representation
of the home directory.
It is represented by the tilde symbol
in the command line.
What you see here is a command-line prompt.
You can configure it
to show whatever you want,
such as the host name, date, or time.
It is currently configured
to show the current working directory.
The tilde symbol here
represents the home directory.
To interact with the Linux system
using the shell,
a user has to type in commands.
When a command is run,
it executes a program
to achieve a specific task.
For example,
the echo command is used
to print a line of text on the screen.
Go on,
try it in your terminal.
Bob types in "echo"
and hits enter.
"Well, that did not do anything," Bob thinks.
He reads further.
When you used the echo command,
you did not tell what you want to print
and as a result, it prints nothing.
That's where an argument
comes into the picture.
An argument acts as an input to the command.
Now type in a single word such as "hello"
following the echo command
and hit enter.
The word hello was printed
in a new line in the shell.
As you get used to the shell,
you will find that many of the commands
need arguments to work.
This is not mandatory though.
There are several commands
that can work without arguments too.
As an example,
type in the command called "uptime."
This is used to print information about
how long the system has been running for
since the last reboot,
along with other information.
This command does not need an argument.
A command can also have options
that modify its behavior
in some predetermined way.
The option,
also sometimes referred to
as a switch or a flag,
is usually a single letter preceded
by a single hyphen.
For example,
to print the same word "hello,"
but without a new trailing line afterward,
use the echo command with a "dash n" flag.
It is impossible to remember
all the possible options a command may offer.
This is why it is important
to make it a practice to refer
to the command help options
or man pages
when working with unfamiliar commands.
We will cover later in the section.
The document moves on
and explains about command types in Linux.
Commands in Linux
can be generally categorized into two types,
internal, or built-in, commands
and external commands.
Internal commands
are part of the shell itself
and come bundled with it.
There are in total about 30 such commands.
Common built-in commands include CD,
which stands for change directory,
export,
MKDIR,
or make directory,
PWD,
or print working directory,
et cetera.
External commands, on the other hand,
are binary programs or scripts
which are usually located
in distinct files in the system.
They either come pre-installed
with the distributions package manager
or can be created or installed by the user.
To determine if a command
is internal or external,
use the "type" command.
For example,
the echo command is a shell built-in.
The MV command is an external command.